Cg/dpcv2docupdate (#51)
CMSgov/dpc-static-site: common/docsV1.md

<a class="guide_top_link" href="#export-data">Back to Start of Section</a><br />
<a class="guide_top_link" href="#">Back to Top of Page</a>

# DPC v2 Upgrade Guide

> **The DPC API is operating in Version 2 (v2) in the sandbox environment only as of August 12, 2021 and is consistent with HL7’s FHIR R4.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The DPC API is operating in Version 2 (v2) in the sandbox environment only as of August 12, 2021. This release is consistent with HL7’s FHIR R4.**
```

This workflow enables Health IT implementers to collaborate as a team and establishes best practices between healthcare organizations and their approved Health IT teams.

## Attribution:
After speaking with DPC’s sandbox users and production pilot partners, research insights indicated that the DPC v1 process for maintaining patient lists on behalf of providers proved more complex and stringent than other existing standards in the healthcare industry today.

**Patient Lists**

**DPC v1:** Users were asked to create and maintain Patient and Practitioner resources with each Practitioner requiring a Group of their own. Patient records were also required to be refreshed every 90 days.

> **DPC v2:** There are fewer Group-related API endpoints as implementers no longer need to maintain the age of FHIR resources in v2. Instead, implementers are required to generate a new list of patients using the <a href="/Create a Group" target="_blank"> Create a Group</a> endpoint (link) that will reference Patient MBIs (Medicare Beneficiary Identifier) in conjunction with their practitioner's Provider NPI (National Provider Identifier) in every export request. Groups may contain patients for multiple practitioners in one request. This method of generating a new list every time 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**DPC v2:** There are fewer Group-related API endpoints as implementers no longer need to maintain the age of FHIR resources in v2. Instead, implementers are required to generate a new list of patients using the <a href="/Create a Group" target="_blank">Create a Group</a> endpoint that will reference Patient MBIs (Medicare Beneficiary Identifier) in conjunction with their practitioner's Provider NPI (National Provider Identifier) in every export request. Groups may contain patients for multiple practitioners in one request. This method of generating a new list every time 
```

For every subsequent data export, a new Group is needed. This approach simplifies the user experience, limits the number of endpoints being used, ensures that the data being requested on behalf of healthcare organizations is the most updated list of active beneficiaries receiving treatment at the time of request, and creates a path for long-term auditing purposes.

**Patient identifiers**

**DPC v1:** Requested the UUID of a patient provided by the DPC API.

**DPC v2:** Requires the beneficiary’s MBI. 

## Attestation/Provenance Header:

**DPC v1:** Both the organization and the practitioner were to be included in the provenance header. 

> **DPC v2:** Only the organization ID is required in the provenance header (link to v2 Provenance section), since a Group will contain multiple patients and practitioners on behalf of a single organization in one request. 

Reviewer: We should check that this link works, but we need one 😉 
```suggestion
**DPC v2:** Only the organization ID is required in the <a href="/Attestation%20%26%20Attribution" target="_blank">provenance header</a>, since a Group will contain multiple patients and practitioners on behalf of a single organization in one request. 
```

Treatment is the only accepted reason by the DPC v2 Terms of Service.

## Data Differences:

> In addition to API-specific changes, there will be a number of differences to expect in data between DPC v1 (which supports FHIR version STU3 (link)) and DPC v2 (which supports FHIR R4 (link)). The high level summary below focuses on the three primary resources provided by the DPC API: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to API-specific changes, there will be a number of differences to expect in data between DPC v1 (which supports <a href="https://www.hl7.org/fhir/stu3/">FHIR version STU3</a>) and DPC v2 (which supports <a href="https://www.hl7.org/fhir/r4/">FHIR R4</a>). The high level summary below focuses on the three primary resources provided by the DPC API: 
```

* ExplanationOfBenefit
* Patient
* Coverage

### Explanation of Benefit

The following table summarizes changes to the EOB resource due to changes between versions 3 (STU3) and 4 (R4) of the FHIR specification.

> For details, see http://www.hl7.org/fhir/explanationofbenefit.html#resource, and select the "R3 Diff" tab under section 13.10.3 "Resource Content"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details, see the "R3 Diff" tab on the <a href="http://www.hl7.org/fhir/explanationofbenefit.html#resource">FHIR ExplanationOfBenefit Resource page</a> under section 13.10.3 "Resource Content"
```

![Explanation of Benefit Table](/assets/images/EOB.svg)

### Patient

The following table summarizes changes to the Patient resource due to changes between versions 3 (STU3) and 4 (R4) of the FHIR specification.  The Patient resource is normative, with a maturity level of 5.  In other words, because this resource has been in a mature state for quite some time, the amount of change to this resource in R4 is minimal.

> For details, see http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/patient.html#resource, and select the "R3 Diff" tab under section 8.1.2 "Resource Content"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details, see the "R3 Diff" tab on the <a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/patient.html#resource">Patient resource page</a> under section 8.1.2 "Resource Content"
```

![Patient Table](/assets/images/Patient.svg)

### Coverage

The following table summarizes changes to the Coverage resource due to changes between versions 3 (STU3) and 4 (R4) of the FHIR specification.  

> For details, see http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/coverage.html#resource, and select the "R3 Diff" tab under section 13.10.3 "Resource Content"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details, see the "R3 Diff" tab on the <a href="http://hl7.org/fhir/R4/coverage.html#resource">FHIR Coverage resource page</a>.
```

![Coverage Table](/assets/images/Coverage.svg)

> Please be sure to share any questions, comments, or concerns that you or your team have regarding DPC v2 in the <a href="https://groups.google.com/g/dpc-api" target="_blank"> DPC Google Group</a> for collaboration and community support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please be sure to share any questions, comments, or concerns that you or your team have regarding DPC v2 in the <a href="https://groups.google.com/g/dpc-api" target="_blank">DPC Google Group</a> for collaboration and community support.
```
